## Resume 
### Profile Summary
- A passionate, enthusiastic and delivery focused Technical Manager with 15+ years of experience in People Management, Leadership, Software Development and Architecture. 
- Passionate in managing and leading people to perform at their peak, believe in giving space to the team, building autonomy within in team. Encouraging team members to demonstrate leadership. Motivate teams, delivering quality product on time, convey complex technical requirements to team; exceed customer expectations. 
- Effective in fostering collaboration and consultative relationships with senior management and across traditional boundaries; highlighting inflection points of technology decisions 
- Awareness of finance domain like Trading, Order Execution, Settlement, Payment, Ledger, Overnight Funding, Repo, Security Lending. 
- Focused on continuous improvement and learning, believe in being Self aware, Self improvements via reflections and retrospection on a regular basis. 
- Good in communication, negotiation and decision making skills. Values assertive communication style of leadership, good listening skills, always focused on understanding other's perspective. 
- Passion for building robust software using Event Driven and Domain Driven architecture.  
- Passionate about problem solving, algorithms, data structure. 
- SCRUM Certified, Agile expert and coach. 

### Responsibilities and Accomplishments
- **IG Group**
    - Architect-ing and Designing Revenue Allocation System responsible for determining quarterly revenue generated by firm across all departments, we are using DDD concepts to arrive at ubiquitous language with Domain experts via Event Storming sessions. 
    - Designed and implemented Asset Ledger & Balance to track asset transition across 2 parties - Buyer and Seller. Built MTF P&L to calculate P&L at trade level tracking Purchase/Sales in FIFO order and posting P&L amount for tax calculation. 
    - Designed and implemented Prime Broker with multiple micro-services for handling trades, instruments, positions, ledger, settlement etc for IG using event driven architecture. Each of these components were integrated using Kafka event bus. 
    - Designed and implemented Overnight Funding, retrieving position, instrument details via Kafka, Trade level LIBOR rates via internal tool after approval from Dealers via JMS, account level details from Account System via REST API. This is 3rd highest revenue generator for the IG Group. 
    - Built these applications with Continuous Integration (CI) model, that could be deployed to PROD in short notice. To support CI built suite of automated tests using BDD, TDD. 
    - Maintaining Overnight funding application 24*7, generating 400K ledger entries per day globally. 
    - Coordinated project across multiple regions and team while building the Double Ledger Entry system for all cash transactions like Card Payment, Japanese Payments, Bank Withdrawals across IG Group.
    - Client & Account migration, i.e. migrating clients from the from legacy account model to client model, so that all client accounts are grouped under one group. This project required a very good understanding of IG functionality like Account Opening, Payments, Dealing.
    - Built a strong team from scratch and using credibility built via strong commitments demonstrated to get delivery done on time, and passion to get things done.  
- **Goldman Sachs** 
    - Built Goldman Sach's strategic UI platform, using Web technologies like AngularJS, JQuery, Bootstrap and REST Services. 
    - Built a generic UI framework for desktop, web, mobile etc. This UI framework was designed to have 2 main modules core and renderer. This approach decouples native implementation of the renderer from Application developers.
    - Played the role of bridge between Application and UI Framework team
    - Security Lending Trading Flow implementation, required requirements collection from Traders for upstream and Operation Team downstream 
    - OTC Trade Processing and Factory systems SecDB, SecTM, CBM were responsible for firms trading activity. Designed matching, contracts generation, and FpML generation for the Trades.
    - During financial crisis of 2008 was in wall street NY supporting firm with peak volumes as part of counter party trades, later worked on business isolation of the trade activity by business to support huge volumes of trades.
    - Reduced support of batch job monitoring by almost 100% via Dashboard - providing real-time status of batch processing. 
    - Re-engineering Trade Processing systems to improve performance and memory consumption 
    - Built and maintained Financial calculator and components like Deal Router, Contract Mapper, FpML generation etc written in GS in-house technology called SecDB tasks like.
- **IBM, Bosch** 
    - Built SOA based application for forecasting retail demand and supply, using spring and hibernate.
    - Improved performance by  50% via multi threading operations while generating reports.
    - Built analysis tool for accomplishing mission-critical business task like Risk and Control Self-Assessment, Strategic Planning, Situational Awareness Analysis, Action Planning. 
    - Java performance and memory analysis using Thread dump, Heap Dump, and tools like JProbe.

### AWARDS AND TRAININGS
- Awards for leadership and technical contributions at IG Group, GS, IBM.
- Project management and Leadership training at IG Group. 
- Trained on technologies like Kafka, Kafka Streams, Spring framework, AWS tech stack, Micro services, Event Driven architecture, DDD at IG Group. 
- Web technologies like AngularJS, Advanced JS, JQuery at GS.
    

